[00:09:54] Interviewer: OK, so the very first question is, like, as usual, as I do. And because we took quite some breaks. Can you tell me about the original question you had in your mind one, one last time?
[00:10:06] Participant: Sure. Okay, so the original question was, which, so, basically the question started with a real life situation that I experienced, where I was helping to deliver water, packets of water bottles from a truck on this on the road to a church, and there was a group of people and we all collectively had to decide whether we would carry the bottles individually into the church or if we would create an assembly line. And there was some back and forth and ultimately we decided to create an assembly line. So the inspiration for modeling. This was to look at the different things at stake with these two methods, which, yeah, I think most importantly it was safety with regards to corona, potential corona exposure. But then kind of not unimportant, maybe second most important, what, a question was, was efficiency. So, I mean, or, or "what would", "how long it would take to do the task?" because time is limited. And then I think the third consideration was "what's going to be easiest?", "what's going to be, what's going to be more work for everybody?" so, I think we were able to break it down into amount of steps taken for each person, which represents the, the amount of work. Bottles carried over a certain amount of time, which represents the total. What would you do you know what we would call that output? Or?
[00:11:56] Interviewer: Like effectiveness maybe? Like, the results? We can even call it the results. Can, call, yeah.
[00:12:05] Participant: Production rate?
[00:12:06] Interviewer: Production rate? Yes, something like that. But output makes the most sense. Like the total output, right? Maybe like the total work that works. Yeah.
[00:12:14] Participant: Sure. Work done, get this work done, efficiency and then exposure. And we've, we've, we've, tracked all of those. So anyway, so that's the. That was the, I kind of went off. I went on a rant on hold on your question, but that was the. That was the actual question.
[00:12:32] Interviewer: And and we obviously did like four or five sessions on this model so, inevitably, like our conversations and our work will color your memory, a little bit. But as far as you remember, what was your initial reaction to the situation when you were with? What did? What did it make you think?
[00:12:51] Participant:  In the real life situation?
[00:12:53] Interviewer: Yeah.
[00:12:56] Participant:  I, be, my, what I felt at first was a sense of fear. That we were taking, that we were taking a dangerous route. That we were using, we were using a, you know, this was the, this was the height of self isolation where people were, I mean, I, myself included, and in general, people were afraid. You know? And afraid of exposing each other.
[00:13:25] Interviewer: In March or April?
[00:13:27] Participant: In, I'll have to look but it was I think it was in April. Okay . Yeah
[00:13:34] Interviewer: The situation was really bad in Detroit, too, right?
[00:13:36] Participant:  It was really bad. And we had a lot of cases, lot of cases, and a lot of deaths. And I had had not been with a group of people for six weeks or something, you know? I, so, I. This was to go to a place and see a bunch of people felt scary. And I mean, it was also exciting to see people but it was, it seemed like a potential. We were risking each other.  So when we decided, my thought my initial reaction was, "Oh, of course. Let's, like, everyone will just carry them. We don't need to get close to each other. We'll just carry the bottles". And then when when people started suggesting the assembly line because it'd be easier, I thought "Oh this is maybe not the best idea because it's, because it's unsafe".
[00:14:24] Interviewer:  But did you buy into the idea that it will be easier? And more work will be done with the assembly line?
[00:14:32] Participant: Yeah, I'm trying to remember now like I didn't even think I really thought about the work. At first, I just thought, well of course we're, there's, there were a bunch of people there. They were probably as many people as we've modeled here. I thought, "well, this isn't you know, it's not that much more work to carry it individually", you know? How much water can it be? It turns out it was a lot of water and we worked for maybe I mean, maybe we work for two and a half or three hours.  It was, it was a lot. Yeah, we, we filled that there was. It was like an, basically an entire semi truck trailer filled with water.