[00:00:00] Interviewer: Can you tell me what you remember from our previous meeting?
[00:00:29] Participant: From our last meeting, we, we did a model and we chose to do the model, basically, modeling how it is, or giving an illustration of how it is when, uh, doing, you know, and the fishermen come to fish, and a pond and the progress of that and everything. So.
[00:00:57] Interviewer: Yeah, and do you, what did you think about that first meeting experience?
[00:01:07] Participant: Um. It was pretty neat to see how, how fish can increase and decrease like that because of them. And then to see fisherman, uh, being a part of the process, seeing how they decrease in the fish populating, to see how they increase. So, yeah, that was pretty neat.
[00:01:34] Interviewer: Yeah, I agree with you that was very neat. To just create something that lively within just one meeting with you. And, and then, did you think about, did you get a chance to think about your model, like, what would you like to add or change today?
[00:01:53] Participant: Yeah I, I was thinking about how I, because, I was looking at the model that you sent me. And like, it, uh it kept, I noticed, it kept increasing a lot, with as far as my population of the fish. So, um, I guess, like, I wanted to ask some things to target that.
[00:02:19] Interviewer: Mm hmm.
[00:02:20] Participant: And I was thinking, like, maybe, there could be more fisherman, maybe a couple, maybe, like, three more fishermen, to just randomly come in, because, I mean, I would think that's how it is in real life, with those different numbers of people to come in, so, probably more fishermen.
[00:02:42] Interviewer: Mm hmm. Do you see my screen, by the way right now?
[00:02:50] Participant: Yeah, I can see.
[00:02:51] Interviewer: Perfect, yeah, just to make sure. Yeah, and you are continuing your talk? Sorry, I interrupted.
[00:02:57] Participant: And another thing is, like, a bigger pond, I guess, to, like, because, you know, in my head, there's like 20 some fish, but because they're populating, it makes sense there to be more, so, yeah, bigger pond would, would fit that. And then, my last thing that I want, that I wrote down here to add, um, it's like between, you know, it's like slow or decrease or have some type of realistic effect of the fish population. I was thinking of, maybe a crocodile or something, to add a new type of fishy amphibian of some kind.
[00:03:48] Interviewer: Yeah that would be fun. Like, like it's not just humans catching fish, but there's, there's also, like, an ecosystem. Right, yeah. Let's start with this, and as we are implementing these, you can always change your thoughts. You can always add more things. I just wanted to note down your immediate thoughts, so that we don't forget those, but you can always come up with more ideas of. We can make this model as simple or as complicated as you want. It really is up to you to just decide what. Would you like it to look like? What would you like to have in there? So let's start with the pond. I think it's the easiest to do. I will make the font bigger and bigger, and you tell me if it's big enough, or if it's the size you wanted. So, it can be this. It can be little bit bigger. It can be much larger. Do you prefer this much larger one or?
[00:04:44] Participant: Yeah, I like this one, cause you can really see the focus of everything, yeah.
[00:04:50] Interviewer: Perfect, and then I will actually, right, to make it a bit more irregular. Is it better to be a bit more irregular like this?
[00:05:04] Participant: Yeah, that's fine.
[00:05:05] Interviewer: Yeah, that's a bit more irregular. There are like little patches and stuff. So that we did. Let's add more fishermen, and you mentioned that, so we have these five fishermen, I think. Are they always staying here, or are they coming and going at times?
[00:05:22] Participant: Um, I would think the five fishermen, would, you know, maybe, they're coming and going, but, but then, they're like, maybe, three other fishermen that, that you know they have. They come by random, so sometimes there would be, I guess, there would be between eight and five. Five that definitely come, but the other three are random.
[00:05:51] Interviewer: So that will be something, like, let me show you how I implemented your idea. So here, you see that there are, like, five and it used to be always five. But now, every time we click setup, it will be a different number, right now, which is seven. Seven again. It's six this time, this time. Does it, does it work the way you want?
[00:06:24] Participant: Yeah, that's cool.
[00:06:26] Interviewer: And now, let's make the fishermen come and go at random. Do they come and go at random times, or periodically? Is there, like, a specific interval?
[00:06:34] Participant: Umm, I would think, like, maybe, I don't know, how you put this, but maybe, like, as it goes to nighttime or like even in time, like, you know, I don't know, how that would because there's no sky.
[00:06:52] Interviewer: Yeah, we can do that. We can do that. So let's give it a try. So let me add that too. So there is almost like a day cycle, right?
[00:07:01] Participant: Right.
[00:07:07] Interviewer: And how long does the day and how long is the night?
[00:07:12] Participant: Um I guess, I, see, I don't know, maybe an hour? As far as, just, or, I don't know, how would, how could that be?
[00:07:27] Interviewer: Well, it doesn't have to be an exactly perfect number. It can be something that you just feel like sounds right, right, for example. And do you want the fishermen to spend five hours next to the water, and another five hours out, in reading outside? Do you want them to spend two hours, two hours next to water? Two hours outside. Two hours next to water, five hours outside, like, ground numbers can be as different as you want them to be. And then we can implement them, and if it doesn't feel right for you, you can change it too.
[00:08:02] Participant: Yeah, okay, so I was, like, a day's time could be an hour and a night's time be an hour.