[00:00:00] Interviewer: OK. So, my very first question in these interviews is, like, can you just tell me what this story evokes, you know? Anything that comes to mind free-flowing? 
[00:00:10] Participant: Umm, it kind of reminds me of the same situation in my parents' neighborhood here in Champaign. There's people who fish in there. They have a lake, and then across the street from the lake is more of a, I guess, a stream type. It's not, it's, I guess it's an offshoot of the lake, and oftentimes when I drive by in the past,  excuse me,  when I'd driven by there, I've seen people fishing, and there are signs not to, and it's usually younger people. And I don't know how much of a problem it is in the neighborhood but, you know, kind of annoys my dad a little bit, and, uh, there's a sign, you know, not to fish, and they clearly do it in front of the sign, so, I guess, that's kind of why I picked it. 
[00:01:04] Interviewer: Why does it bother your dad when people fish in that bridge? 
[00:01:08] Participant: I think because he's a pretty, you know, by-the-rules type of guy so that sign there is for a reason, and it kind of annoys him when he sees people, you know, going against the rules, and it's not, you know, it's not as if he calls the police or anything, but I think that's the biggest reason. I don't think it... to a lesser extent, it may have to do with the,  what's the word?,  like, the ecosystem of the lake, you know, messing that up, but I think it's more just the actual rule,  that annoys him,  that's been broken. 
[00:01:52] Interviewer: Can you tell me about a little bit more about the ecosystem of the lake? 
[00:02:01] Participant: Um, well, as far as how that might bother him, you mean? 
[00:02:06] Interviewer: Generally, from your understanding, you know? Like, again, like the, the mental image that it evokes for you. 
[00:02:11] Participant: Well, I mean. I don't,  I mean, I don't know. I assume I have a, you know, obviously, a reason for not,  people not wanting to have people fish there, and so, you know, I don't know if fishing there harms the ecosystem of the lake or not. I mean, it may, but, I mean, I assume, they just want to kind of leave it alone, and let it progress as it will without people fishing or, you know, the byproducts of that which may be people leaving trash by the, by the area where the stream is and things like that. You know, the garbage, etc. 
[00:02:59] Interviewer: Yeah. So, um, before, I asked, I have a bunch of follow-up questions, but before I ask any more follow-up questions, do you have any other free flowing thoughts when reading the story? 
[00:03:15] Participant: No, not really. It's just, I, you know, like I said, it's usually,  it seems like it's younger people, and it's right off by the side of the road, and... no, not really. 
[00:03:28] Interviewer: Okay. Okay. So, why do you think fishing in that in the bridge there disturbs the ecosystem? 
[00:03:44] Participant: I mean, I don't know for sure that it does, but I just, I would be curious to the neighborhood,  whoever runs that the neighborhood rules or whatever,  you know, I'd be curious to know their reasons why they don't want people to fish in the lake, because it is more of a well-to-do neighborhood. It's not super rich, but, but it's, it's a, it's one of the wealthier neighborhoods in town, and so my assumption is that, maybe, they just don't want people coming in to fish and perhaps littering or, I mean, as far as the ecosystem of the, of the lake and the offshoot of the lake. Like I said, I don't, for all I know, maybe fishing is, is good for it to, like, get, you know, more fish out of there, but if it's overpopulated. But I just don't know about that, so, maybe the ecosystem, the environmental aspect, isn't so as much important as just the fact that they don't want kids there littering off the side of the road in that neighborhood. 
[00:04:54] Interviewer: Yeah. If you were to focus on a hypothetical situation where,  because this one is specifically talking about trout and the environment,  if you were to think about an environmental situation where fishing will be, let's say, harmful or beneficial, how would you describe it? You know, you don't have to have an answer, a correct answer; it has to be more like you just hypothesizing. 
[00:05:23] Participant: So, like, how might fishing be both beneficial and harmful? 
[00:05:28] Interviewer: Yeah, or either. Whichever works. 
[00:05:31] Participant: Well, I know, like, in Lake Michigan near Chicago, I think there was a certain,  was it a...? I think it was a pike fish?,  was a type of fish that was hugely overpopulated with pike fish, and so that's an instance where, you know, perhaps fishing might be a good thing. Although I understand that maybe pike isn't the most edible type of seafood, so I don't know... But I also know that in that instance they were trying to build,  I don't know if it was walls or something,  to kind of keep pike out of certain areas in that area, so, and, and I think the Pike were somehow doing harm. I can't remember what exactly, how exactly they were harming. Maybe it was the, again, maybe it was the ecosystem of that particular region of the Lake Michigan. They were eating other fish that people wanted, maybe? It was something with, something like that. And then you have instances where overfishing is, you know, not a good thing. It affects livelihoods, and, and it also, you know, overfishing can make, I would imagine, certain types of fish, perhaps, go extinct. 
[00:06:54] Interviewer: You gave me two mechanisms, these two things, two phenomena, when you were describing. One was an overpopulation of specific kind of fish, and one was overfishing. Let's first focus on the first one. How do you think overpopulation happens? 
[00:07:11] Participant:  With fish? That's a good question. I wonder if,  I mean, obviously, there's a lot of breeding going on, and, and it could also be a result of, you know, for whatever reason, that particular fish isn't a popular type of fish to get, or, like, the pike. Or maybe it's just a region of the area where people just don't fish a lot. So, I guess those factors would,  the breeding and the location and things like that,  would maybe contribute to overpopulation, and then you asked about under population? 
[00:07:55] Interviewer: Let's stay with overpopulation. For example, you mentioned fishing. You know, like, if we don't fish enough, there may be overpopulation. If we did, for example, like, hire companies who built boats and started fishing, would it be able to prevent overpopulation of a specific kind of fish? 
[00:08:14] Participant: Yeah, I would think so. I would think of an instance like that a company coming in to fish would certainly lessen the the population. Kind of similar to when, you know, hunters who like to, you know, when deers,  there's certain areas of Illinois where deers are just prevailing, and they actually encourage hunting. Um, I guess that's not a totally apt scenario, you know, comparison, but, um, yeah, certainly if a company came in for the purposes of fishing, certainly the population would go down .
[00:08:51] Interviewer: And what will happen if,  I don't know what happened in Lake Michigan. Maybe they did something like that. I am not super familiar with that,  maybe, they hired a company to, to catch that overpopulating fish, but what would happen if that fish in Lake Michigan was let, like, was left its own, own self? You know, like, nobody fished. Nobody did nothing. What would happen in the ecosystem? 
[00:09:14] Participant: I think the harm that they were causing would, would obviously continue to go on, and it may,  I, like I said, I think the issue there was that they were eating a lot of,  they were eating different types of fish that, and it was destroying the underwater ecosystem there, and so I suppose that would continue, and they would continue to overpopulate and... 
[00:09:39] Interviewer: Yeah. Well, what would happen in a scenario of overfishing? 
[00:09:49] Participant: In that same region? 
[00:09:50] Interviewer: Mm hmm. 
[00:09:53] Participant: It would be interesting, because I don't know. Like, I said the Pike are not that attractive of a fish, but I seem to remember that, that they were, man, they were using the Pike to become more of a delicate, delicatessen type,  make the make it more edible, somehow. 
[00:10:18] Interviewer: Yeah. 
[00:10:18] Participant: You know what I mean? That was my understanding, and it's been so long, but, so, maybe if they could somehow monetize,  make, make fishing for the pike, of the pike, a more valuable commodity, you know, to,  and that would lessen their population and hopefully equal out the habitat a little bit. 
[00:10:44] Interviewer: So, when you think about,  so, you described this ecosystem, like pike fish and other types of fish. People who are fishing, and then, and then just an ecosystem,  if we were to just pay more attention to these parts or actors of this system, in general, what would you think as the parts or actors of this ecosystem that you describe? 
[00:11:14] Participant: Various parts within it? So, it would be, you know, obviously, food that fish feed off of within the lakes and the algae and the predators, you know. The, the, I guess, the chain of command within the fish, where sort of the "Only the strong survive" in a sense, you know. Each, each fish has its own prey and its preyed upon, and that's sort of the natural scheme of things. You have, unfortunately, pollution. You have sunlight. You have algae. Lake Michigan, I believe Lake Michigan is, is a salt water,  is it a salt water? No, it's not. It's a freshwaster, Yeah, so, but I know a lake, like at my dad's, that would be the more muddy bottom and Lake Michigan is obviously huge. It's almost like an ocean. So, you know, that's two very different bodies of water. 
[00:12:20] Interviewer: Yeah. Any other parts or actors? 
[00:12:24] Participant: I mean, I suppose the human element of it, of people on the lake. On, on both lakes. You know, in the case of Lake Michigan, it's probably,  you wouldn't have swimmers out there, but maybe boats and then possibly fisher,  fisherman. 
[00:12:42] Interviewer: Uh, huh. 
[00:12:43] Participant: Yeah. 
[00:12:44] Interviewer: Yeah, and what, what are the mechanisms that bring all these parts and actors together? What do these parts and actors do? 
[00:13:00] Participant: Um, as far as how they sustain their own lives or other, ? 
[00:13:06] Interviewer: Sure, yeah. How did they just come together and exist or coexist? 
[00:13:13] Participant: You know, like, so with the neighborhood lake, I believe that was a man made lake, so I'm sure that they probably put fish in there, and hmm... That's a tough question. So the question is just, basically, how they coexist,  coexist? I mean, I imagine, as time goes on, more fish, more types of fish, maybe, somehow come to be within both types of water, you know, and, and, of course, the seasons probably affect fish greatly. I'm sure they have tough skins to protect themselves from the cold, but I mean, you know, sometimes the lake in my dad's neighborhood freezes. Lake Michigan gets really cold. I'm sure they like fun. Like, I'm sure they like going to the top for sunlight. Yeah, that's, that's about it. All I can think of that question.
[00:14:40] Interviewer: Okay. So, if you, if we are, if I were to ask some of the things that you mentioned,  parts, directors,  I call it parts or actors, because actors signify maybe organisms that act and move and do things versus parts may also be animals or inanimate objects and stuff like this. I don't want to just lead you towards one direction to the other. That's why. Well, because that, for example, what do fish do? You know, like, you can just talk about what, what do fish do in the system. 
[00:15:17] Participant: Umm, well, I mean, you know, they, they feed people. There's one thing, you know. They provide, in a weird way, a source of entertainment for people; people love to fish,  but,  so there's that element, and then they have their own world, you know, down there, where they're surviving and eating and breathing and contributing to their own underwater ecosystem. They can be used for people to put them in aquariums. You know, I remember when I was a kid, I actually got some sort of sea creature from,  it was from a lake here in town and put it in my aquarium at home. I was with a friend. It was a really stupid thing to do. There was a 30-gallon aquarium, and I put it in there,  we put it in there,  and it just it was not a good thing. It didn't work out too well. It was a bigger,  yeah... I regret doing that now, but, umm, normal non-kids would sometimes get smaller fish for aquariums. I mean, so, I mean fish provide, like I said, just kind of a exotic underworld entertainment for humans, and then they have their own ecosystem, you know, that they live in and... 
[00:16:47] Interviewer: Do, do you have a pen and paper nearby? If you were to draw a very, like, crude scene, you know, a crude drawing,  it doesn't have to be in any sort of way. I mean, you can make it as detailed, as nice as you want, but it doesn't have to be super nice or something. If you were to explain, you know,  you did say a lot of things about the ecosystem, the fish, the fishermen, the balance, etc,  if you were to explain it in a drawing, how would you explain it? How to draw it? 
[00:17:22] Participant: Explain the what? 
[00:17:23] Interviewer: If you were to explain all these things that you mentioned to me right now in a drawing, can you draw something for me? 
[00:17:30] Participant: Sure. 
[00:17:31] Interviewer: Yeah, take your time, and draw it as much as you're comfortable with. Don't try to worry about it being nice and stuff. 
[00:17:39] Participant: Gotcha. Okay. 
[00:17:40] Interviewer: Yeah. Oh, a great work, work of art. Do you want to see it? Yeah, yeah. I do want to see it. So, can you a little bit back? Okay. Can you explain your drawing a bit verbally? 
[00:19:28] Participant: Do you want to watch it while I'm talking? You've got the,  it's just the lake. At first I, you know, this line is the lake, and at first, I was thinking more Lake Michigan, but then there were elements of the neighborhood lake that kind of came in there, but, you know, you have the grass underneath. These are pike, poorly drawn pike. A little fishing hook here; that's more from the neighborhood part, and then the sunshine. 
[00:20:01] Interviewer: So, the bottom part, for example, like, you did not, we did not talk about that part. The bottom, you have, like, grass in the lake,  bottom of the lake? What, what, what do those signify? 
[00:20:13] Participant: Yeah, come to think of it, I don't know if grass would be down at the bottom of a lake, but it was just an attempt to show some sort of, you know, food and shelter and things that,  chances are, it's going to be a lot more muddy, but you do see some grass, I guess, down on the bottom of the water on the little rock here. 
[00:20:41] Interviewer: Yeah, I did see that, too. How about the sun? 
[00:20:45] Participant: Yeah. I would, I think that's maybe part of what I always see. That's a, that's a, when I see kids at the lake, at my dad's, it seems like it's always sunny, you know? We used to live, have a condo by a lake, and I never fished there, but, you know, other people would. It was legal to fish there, and, you know, I have good memories of living by that, by that lake. 
[00:21:16] Interviewer: It was legal back when you were younger? 
[00:21:19] Participant: Yeah, it was legal. This is several years ago, but we, about, I think like 13-15 years ago, to be exact, and that particular lake, you could fish there, here in town. 
[00:21:36] Interviewer: That's very interesting. Do you have any theories? Like, you did mention some theories, but do you have any theories on why they specifically decided to not let fishing in there? 
[00:21:46] Participant: In my dad's neighborhood? 
[00:21:49] Interviewer: Yeah. 
[00:21:50] Participant: Um, I would say it's just, it's, it's, like I said, it's kind of an upscale neighborhood, and then maybe they're just trying to keep younger kids out. But, like I said, it could, maybe, also they may care about the lake, and they don't want garbage around the shoreline. There's,  it's also on a golf course, so that, that could be a factor, too. 
[00:22:19] Interviewer: Yeah. 
[00:22:19] Participant: Keeping everything clean. 
[00:22:21] Interviewer: Okay. A final question. If you were to change anything in this,  for example, let's focus on the lake near your, let's focus on Lake Michigan that we talked about,  if you were to focus, if you were to change things in the system, what would you like in this? If you were to change anything pretty much, what would you change to make things better? 
[00:22:50] Participant: Definitely the pollution of the lakes and the garbage. I mean, there's the amount of plastic and oceans and rivers all over the world is just staggering, and I imagine that Lake Michigan has its share of that garbage and plastic, and I hate to hear, you know, what that does to ecosystems underwater. It's just, it's tragic, you know, and then that affects, you know, people who do fish for a living. They see some of that stuff in fish, you know, plastic and all sorts of things. I mean, they're just heavily polluted, so that's a big issue all over the world, really. 
[00:23:41] Interviewer: Will this be different? So, how about comparing Lake Michigan to the small lake near your father's. Would it be different for the smaller lake? 
[00:23:54] Participant: I would imagine so. I know they don't allow swimmers. They don't allow paddle boats or boats. That's probably, too, no, no canoes. So, I imagine, yes; it would be a lot cleaner. 
[00:24:10] Interviewer: Okay, yeah, and, and, and, would you still be in favor of keeping the fisher people off the lake in the long term? 
[00:24:24] Participant: I guess, yes, just to kind of respect the wishes of the neighborhood organization. 
[00:24:30] Interviewer: Okay. 
[00:24:30] Participant: Yeah, yeah. 
[00:24:32] Interviewer: So, these were my specific questions, but I want to give you some more time to, like, really, like, anything that comes to your mind regarding this topic that we've been talking about, any other things that you would like to share or comment on? 
[00:24:47] Participant: I don't think so. I mean, it's a pretty,  some of the things we've talked about, there's, there's been a lot of, you know, you hear about overfishing, you hear about fisherman who can't catch anything. Sometimes, there is regions of the country where they do, you know,  it's very lucrative,  and then but you hear oftentimes it seems like, especially on the east coast, where overfishing has been a big problem, and unfortunately it's affected livelihoods, and tied in there, too, is, like I talked about, the, the pollution. I mean, I just think that's a huge thing, and, but, and then there's just, I guess, the entertainment value of fishing. People just,  it's a, it's a, it's a way to people bond, and so that was that kind of more simple element to it, you know. 
[00:25:54] Interviewer: Yeah, and it's very interesting, right? Like, in some parts of the world, we have this overfishing issue where, from my understanding, there run out of fish, and in Lake Michigan, we had this overpopulation issue; we just had too many of one type of fish. 
[00:26:09] Participant: Right. 
[00:26:11] Interviewer: Very interesting. 
[00:26:12] Participant: Yeah, and you don't hear about,  at least, I don't. All too often, the, the pike issue, I mean, that was a pretty serious issue. But I used to read about pretty frequently, and I don't really know what's happened. I haven't heard about it as much, so maybe it's not nearly as bad, but that, that that is an interesting thing you have this one breed of fish that's just over running things.
[00:26:44] Interviewer: Yeah, yeah. I mean. It really did die down those stories, right? Like, I remember reading about it in the past, to. Why,  what's,  if you were to purely speculate it, what would you speculate that would fix it? 
[00:26:49] Participant: I think, I think when I read about how they were going to do some sort of divider, that, that made a lot of sense, and I thought, "If they can do this," I think, you know, "That, that could work." 
[00:27:01] Interviewer: Okay. 
[00:27:02] Participant: And it was, you know, the division between regions somewhere to prevent all these pike fish from getting to another region. 
[00:27:16] Interviewer: Okay. Very cool. 
[00:27:18] Participant: Yeah. When I read about it, I thought, "Yeah. That's could maybe work." 
[00:27:21] Interviewer: Let's just keep them away from the other region. Okay. These were all of my questions. Let me stop sharing my screen, and do you have anything else to say before I stop recording? 
[00:27:36] Participant: I can't think of anything.
