[00:00:00] Interviewer: So, I will share my screen with you, and I will show you some news stories-- stories from the news that I clipped-- that were interesting to me, because I don't want to ask you, like, thinking about a complex situation. That's just an open ended question that will give you a really hard time. I will share you six different stories, new stories, that-- I think-- will be relevant, and you can pick the one you like, and you can take as much time as you want to pick the one you like. And then, on top of that, you can look at these, and you can say, &quot;These ones remind me of this other story that I heard about this other topic,&quot; and you can propose a topic as well. The first story is, &quot;Air quality improvements from COVID lockdowns confirmed,&quot; and I will just go quickly between these cycles-- between these and then we can specifically look into the ones that you want to look at, and I didn't include any of the story-- new stories text, any of the article-- to not impact, impact the way you think about this. If any of these topics are familiar with you and interesting to you or personally relevant to you, you can pick those. So the second one is, &quot;With dog poop everywhere, West Loop neighbors unite to put free clean-up bags around the neighborhood.&quot; And there's a subtitle that says, &quot;There always seems to be dog poop problem after snow melts, but not to this degree,&quot; one of them said. &quot;It's really bad this year.&quot; The third one is, &quot;Man fishing for trout off West Virginia bridge charged, fined,&quot; said Natural Resources Police. Someone was fishing in a bridge. They were charged and fined. The next one is, &quot;Rich people of Hamptons suffer new headache: even richer people. Prices are ballooning as more rich people who are even richer than people who live in the Hamptons, New York, move in to that area. And the next one is, &quot;Hurricane Ida: what to know about the storm and its damage. It strikes New Orleans. It's struck New Orleans, you know, a month or two ago, and then it cost widespread damage. And I think this last one is, &quot;As a sea of lava destroys livelihoods on La Palma, it also offers a lifeline.&quot; There was a volcano explosion in a Spanish town recently. Are you familiar with any of these stories?

[00:02:25] Participant: Um, I'm not crazy familiar with any of them. I guess the one that I'd be most familiar with would be Hurricane Ida. Yeah, I think that would be the-- or maybe the one with the people in the Hamptons. One of those two.

[00:02:40] Interviewer: Which one would you prefer? Which one is more interesting for you to talk about?

[00:02:44] Participant: Um, I guess it's Hurricane Ida.

[00:02:47] Interviewer: Okay, let's stick to that, and then we can change our mind, too. You know, so, and I will leave this here for to give you a reference point, you know, and I, hopefully, like, I don't want you to just focus on the damage, of course. Just anything that you would like to talk about, we should talk about. So, can you tell me how much you know about Hurricane Ida? 

[00:03:16] Participant: Um, I kind of thought it was interesting that it happened, like, right after, like, on the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina. I thought that was, that's kind of why I paid attention to it a little bit. I, I don't really know a ton about, like, the actual hurricane. I always thought that it was interesting that it happened, like, on the anniversary of, like, one of the biggest hurricanes. It's, like, happened, like, not even, like, just the Louisiana-- like the entire United States. Um, and, so, yeah. That's kind of what I thought about, you know, like, that period.

[00:03:50] Interviewer: Yeah. So, the first question here is that, can you explain what happened as much as you would like to-- in as much detail as you can?

[00:04:03] Participant: Umm to be honest with you, out of all of the articles, I don't think I could explain much about any of the, like, topics very well and in any detail.

[00:04:15] Interviewer: You can also think about this as, like, a starting point and explain, like, in your own words and understanding, what happens during a hurricane.

[00:04:24] Participant: Yeah. 

[00:04:24] Interviewer: It doesn't have to be only just a natural phenomena. It can be really anything related to the hurricane. 

[00:04:31] Participant: Um, so I know that, like, during a hurricane, there's usually, like, an evacuation process that happens. So, like, they-- the city-- trying to get people out of, like, out of the hurricane, out of the hurricane path, and that was, like, the major failings of Katrina-- like, they didn't do that. And so, that's kind of why, and like pete you know, especially in Louisiana, the city of New Orleans, there's a lot of people who don't have anywhere to go. So, it was hard for people to, really, get out of the way of the hurricane, because there's nowhere to go. There's no way to evacuate to, and the city didn't put any kind of thought into, like, &quot;Well, just get out.&quot; Well, where? And so, I think that was kind of one thing that was a failure there, and you know, I'd be curious, like, I don't really know if that, that was improved during Hurricane Ida. I'd be curious to find out, like, if that was, you know, fixed, I guess, when that kind of disaster came. But yeah I--

[00:05:38] Interviewer: Yeah. Go ahead. Sorry, I don't to interrupt.

[00:05:41] Participant: Yeah, no. Umm, I'm assuming since, like, I'm not hearing as much about it now, I'm assuming it wasn't as bad as Katrina, obviously. Because I, I don't, you know, it's, I, I'm not-- we're not still talking about it, but I, you know, I think that that means that they're improving something. Yeah.

[00:06:06] Interviewer: So, one thing you mentioned was, you remembered it, and that was very central to your thinking that the evacuation was a problem when Katrina happened. Can you tell me a little bit about that?

[00:06:21] Participant: Um, yeah. So, I mean, I wasn't alive during Katrina but, like, I remember learning about how, like, like, like, the city was telling people in the government, like the Federal Government was, like, &quot;Everybody needs to get out of the way of the hurricane. This is coming.&quot; And, like, it wasn't a surprise that Katrina happened. We all knew it was coming, because it already came through Cuba-- came through-- like, it was coming. We knew it was coming, and so people had said, you know, &quot;You need to get out of the way of the hurricane,&quot; and a lot of people in the city of New Orleans don't really have, like, it's-- there's a lot of lower income areas in the city of New Orleans, and so a lot of people don't have a place to go, and so when people are saying you need to go, &quot;You need to leave. You need to leave your city,&quot; they're, like, &quot;Where are we going to go, and where we want to evacuate to?&quot; And so, people were just, like, &quot;We're just gonna-- where, where are we going to go? We're gonna stay here,&quot; and nobody kind of knew how bad it was going to be, and then after that, there was no relief for anybody for a while, and that was really, like, was that, like, hurricane was only-- I feel like the hurricane was only like a Category, like, two or three right? And it wasn't, it wasn't that bad of a hurricane. The tragedy, really, was, there was no support given to the people after the hurricane, and that's probably-- that's mostly because people lived in New Orleans weren't the people who, like, in the eyes of the federal government, like, needed help. Like, they didn't care enough to help them. So, you know.

[00:07:54] Interviewer: Um, yeah. That's, like, that's a very fascinating thing. Like, how does, how does even an evacuation work in that kind of scenario, you know? And of course, you don't, you don't know all the details. You're working with those agencies and etc. But as citizens, we kind of have to form some thoughts. Perhaps a hurricane will hit where we live. I don't know where you live, but I mean Midwest, there's usually not hurricanes. But if I move to New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, I have to have an idea about how evacuations work, so I can prepare. So, within your own-- as much as you understand, and you would like to share-- how do you think these, these evacuations work?

[00:08:40] Participant: How do I think what works? 

[00:08:43] Interviewer: Evacuations before a hurricane while the hurricanes approaching?

[00:08:49] Participant: Um, I think that it should work like you should just-- it should just be getting people out of the area. I think the government should work. I think the local governments and the Federal Government should work together to try to get people-- either bussing people out or, like, getting, like-- most, I feel like, most people who have a good enough income are going to leave once they hear of a hurricane. Like, so I'm, like, that's not people who I'm worried about. Like, people who are lower income, homeless people, for those types of people, I feel like, like the local governments and the Federal Government, need to start, need to, like, work together in order to bus people out, to just work on finding a place for those who need to go that's out of the path of a hurricane. Um, and honestly I'm not exactly sure how, but then I feel, like, there needs to be a system in place for that, because I think especially, like, in states where there's a lot of hurricanes, like in Florida and then in North Carolina and South Carolina. Like in the South, there's a lot of people who, like, are homeless and don't have a place to go, and so, like, you know, those people are kind of out, are kind of left out when, like, natural disasters strike and so. I, if there isn't a system in place-- I don't know if there is or not-- um, but if there isn't a system in place, there definitely needs to be for when, you know, that when natural disasters kind of happen. But what I would imagine would happen is, they would just bus them to a nearby state, nearby Community Center, nearby something out of the path of the hurricane. Um, yeah. I guess, I guess that's what I would imagine would happen. 

[00:10:41] Interviewer: Yeah, there are so many questions. But before I ask my next follow up question, do you have any other thoughts? 

[00:10:48] Participant: Umm, not really.

[00:10:50] Interviewer: Okay, yeah. So, this should be, like, you just expressing your thoughts freely, almost like... The next question I have is, like, what are the parts or actors, you know-- what are the pieces, parts, actors that come together to, to make evacuations happen?

[00:11:10] Participant: Um, so, I guess one, I guess, a couple big parts will be like the different levels of government. We need to, like, come together. Um, so I guess that would be like state governments. That would be local governments. That would be the federal government. And because, like, obviously, state, local governments, they don't have, like, funding to be able to get people out, and they, and they if, if a hurricane is affecting a whole state, they're not going to be able to-- like, where are they going to go? They can't bus them to another part of their state, so they need to be able to work with the Federal Government to bus them to another state or to take them somewhere else, where it's not in line of the hurricane. And so, and if the hurricane is affecting multiple states, that's also when the Federal Government will come in to say, &quot;Okay, this is the game plan for everybody,&quot; and so we need to, like, delegate different responsibilities to different levels of government, and I think it's also the responsibility of, like, for people to be able to actually leave when the government is, like, &quot;Okay, we're-- guys-- it's time to go. It's time to leave. There's a hurricane coming. You have to go.&quot; Because, I think, there's also like a level of distrust with the government. Um, and so, I think that, like, a lot of people wouldn't leave. Like, the government is, like, &quot;Hey, get on this bus.&quot; So I think that, like that also, like, there's an element of that that needs to be kind of like fixed within certain communities. That, like, people need to-- like there needs to be an effort to regain the trust of some communities-- like with the government so that, like, when the national disaster strikes, and when people need to get help from the government, they feel like they can get help from the government, because it's-- that's what it's there for: to help people. So, like, when something needs-- like when they need-- like when the government needs to do something, and when they need the help of the people when everybody needs to leave, like, they actually do leave, because they feel safe enough to do so.

[00:13:14] Interviewer: So, as far as I understand, like, there are two main actors in your mind when it comes to coordinating an evacuation right before hurricane hits: the government and the Community, the people in the Community.

[00:13:27] Participant: Yeah. 

[00:13:28] Interviewer: Do you think there are other actors?

[00:13:31] Participant: Not, not really. I don't think so.

[00:13:34] Interviewer: Okay, 

[00:13:35] Participant: I think I'm-- sorry, I think the government has like two levels of it. Kind of like you have a stake at every you have local governments-- like the federal government, you have like the local governments-- but other than that, I think it's just the government and people.

[00:13:48] Interviewer: And you already explained the government part of that question I was going to ask. But what does the Community look like? The government has two levels-- local and federal. What does the Community look like?

[00:13:58] Participant: Um, I think you have, like, people who don't really need that much assistance from the government when it comes to like evacuating. Umm, like, you just have people who are, have, are middle and high upper class people who have, who probably can afford a weekend stay in a motel or hotel. They don't need the government to bus them out somewhere-- they can afford that-- and so there doesn't need to be much Community outreach for them. But where I think there needs to be a lot of focuses, a lot of the lower income people who don't have a place to go, who can't afford a weekend in a hotel, who don't have-- might not even have, like in some cities you'd probably don't even really need, like in New Orleans, you don't really need a car. So, like, if you're a lower income person in New Orleans, you probably don't have a car, so you don't, they don't have a place to-- they don't have anywhere to go, and they don't have a means to get anywhere. Um, so I think that really needs to focus on, like, that, that's the group that the, the outreach needs to focus on, like lower income people in, like, in that situation and in those communities.

[00:15:10] Interviewer: Perfect. Um, so, let's see. Umm, in pre-COVID times, I was hoping we would do, like, some drawing and sketching for you to explain your taking a little bit more. If you have pen and paper, we can do it that way. Yeah, you can maybe, like, draw your understanding of an evacuation situation. If not, I can set up a system here, where you can draw it remote, but I'm assuming it would be much nicer to write it on paper. Would you like to take about, like, five minutes to sketch something and then? 

[00:15:45] Participant: So, what do I draw exactly?

[00:15:49] Interviewer: Um, how does the, the situation you described to me, you know, like, if you were to explain someone how should an evacuation happen, you know. It doesn't have to be how does it currently happen. In your current understanding, how should it happen? Okay, you're to draw it. Yeah. 

[00:16:03] Participant: Okay. So, I kind of drew like a diagram thing here. So...

[00:18:59] Interviewer: Perfect. Yeah, let me see, and you can also take a picture on your phone and send me. But first, yeah, first let me explain it, yeah.

[00:19:08] Participant: So, I have state and local governments here, and I kind of have them, like, working together, and the first step is kind of building trust in the Community, and I kind of have the Community split here between upper and lower class. And so, then, like, when it evacuates-- so like that's the first step-- and so, like, when an evacuation kind of needs to happen, both, the both governments need to use the trust they built to, like, bus lower income people out of harm's way, and they need to use the trust they built with these communities, like they're trusting without written approval that they need to move out of harm's way, so that'll kind of leave to, like, a safe evacuation.

[00:19:45] Interviewer: Great. So, can you hold it to the screen in a second for me to, like... Okay, so, um, state, local governments working together, build trust in community. First go first... Okay, perfect. So, I will ask a few questions to break up individual parts. You used usually the terms, the names of the actors, you know-- state governments, local, local governments and etc-- but you didn't draw the, the bus. Why did you draw the shape of the bus instead of not drawing it and not the government?

[00:20:27] Participant: I can't draw people, but I can draw a square. Yeah, that's really the only reason. Um, yeah, just ability level.

[00:20:39] Interviewer: And there are a few connections, you know, that there are arrows from the state to local government, for example. Like, can you tell me more about what each of those arrows signify?

[00:20:52] Participant: Um, yeah so I have an arrow going from, like, so I have my first arrow going from state and local government to the federal government, because that's kind of how it works, like, the state and local government are kinda below the federal government. And so, they kind of need to, like, but they still need to, like, be together, like, still need to, like, work together. And so I kind of have both of those going to building trust in the Community, because, like, that go, like, they both need to go into building trust in community. And so, I have, like, the upper middle class going into-- like, I have an arrow going from them to a safe evacuation and, like, the arrow have, has, like, trusting the government. Um, I drew an arrow there, because, like, that, like, this step in between, like, them actually leaving is trusting that the government's telling them, like, the right thing and trusting that everything is, like, accurate information. And yeah, the same, it's the same kind of thing with the state and local government, going to be using the trust of the bus, because they're use-- because that they're using that tool to be able to, like, get people out of harm's way, and all that is kind of leading into a safe evacuation. All the arrows are kind of ending up pointing to, like, a safe evacuation at the end.

[00:22:20] Interviewer: So, there-- it's very interesting to me, like, trust is really at the center of your-- like, for everything to work in your explanation. Do you think there are people who trust and others who don't trust government, or do you think everybody doesn't trust government?

[00:22:39] Participant: I do think there are-- I see. I think there's people who trust the government to, like, a certain point. Um, I think that a lot of-- I think trust kind of comes with a lot-- I think-- a lot of people who are in the upper middle class. I think that they're more willing to trust the government, because they've been able to see success from the way our system works. And I think that lower income people haven't been able to see the same success. And so, that's why I think it's-- there needs, there's more of a, like, there needs to be more of an effort to build trust in that Community rather than the other Community. But I do think there are some people who do, who do just trust, who do just blindly trust government and there's some people who just will not. Um, I think that's just kind of like a personal thing that some people will just, like, some people just have trust issues. Some people just trust blindly, and I think that that's just, like, a personal thing that some people have. Yeah, it, I think it depends on the person, but I think generally lower income people don't trust the government, because they think they've been hurt by the government a lot.

[00:23:51] Interviewer: Yeah, so in this hypothetical evacuation scenario, what do people who trust the government do?

[00:23:58] Participant: Um, I think people would trust the government move. I think people who trust the government do what the government says so, depending on, like, what the government is doing. So, like, if you're an upper class person and the government says move, you move out of the way. And if you're a lower class person and the government says, &quot;Get on this bus and leave,&quot; you get on the bus and you leave. And I think if you don't trust the government. you're less likely to get on that bus, because you're, like, &quot;Where's this bus taking me? I'm not going to just get on a bus because somebody told me to.&quot; And if you're an upper class person and you don't trust the government, then you're less likely to leave still, because you're, like, &quot;Ah, is there really a hurricane coming? Uh, you're, you're, you're less likely to trust.

[00:24:37] Interviewer: Yeah. Umm, would changing the structure of the, that you described-- for example here, the federal government and and the local government plays a critical role, as far as I understand let's build it verified-- do you think if the federal or local governments don't act up, would people still evacuate? Or would people still find solutions when hurricane is approaching?

[00:25:05] Participant: Um, I think people will always find solutions to problems. Um, I think it's just kind of human nature: um, when there's a problem, people find a solution, regardless of if there's help there or not. Yeah, I think people always find some way to fix whatever problem they're in. Yeah.

[00:25:27] Interviewer: What would it look like? Would there be an evacuation, or would there be, would there be other solutions?

[00:25:34] Participant: I think that people who can afford to leave will leave, and then I think that people can't, won't. And I think we'll kind of see, like, there's a lot of stories from people who were, like, entrenched. Like in New Orleans, during Katrina, where there's like a lot of Community building around and people will help each other out when they could, and you know, I think there would be, like, stories kind of like that, where like the Community would just kind of help each other out, because I think that's kind of, like, human nature to kind of help each other out when we can. Um, but I think that, like, people will, like, try to keep themselves safe over, like, anything else, so I think if you had the option to leave and you actually thought that you were in danger, you would. And so I think a lot, I think people would still evacuate regardless if the government told them not to or not. Um, but I feel, I still think, and I, and in the same sense if people told, if the government told them to leave or not, I think people would still stay, regardless if the government said anything.

[00:26:37] Interviewer: So, how would that evacuation look like? So, in your sketch model, in your sketch explanation, with that you did with the pen, there's definitely, like, government, local government, and then building trust and then the evacuation to a safe place happens. If you take government and the local government out of that thing, how will that even look like, the evacuation?

[00:26:57] Participant: Um, I think that it would be a lot harder for people who don't have as many resources and don't have-- yeah, just don't have as many resources. I think that it would kind of be a thing where people would kind of be stuck where they're at, and they would kind of just have to tough it out for lack of a better word. And I think that you would see a scene very similar to Katrina. I think that people would kind of just have to-- they would just make do with the things that they had. I think that people would just kind of survive the best that they could. I still think there, I still-- some lower income people would still manage to evacuate just because that's just kind of how-- like I just because um... But I think most people would end up being in a tough situation. But, yeah. It would just be a tough situation. 

[00:28:06] Interviewer: Yeah. Definitely. Umm, would changing the structure-- you know, everything that seems to be hinging on federal government and the local government-- would changing the structure help in achieving better results?

[00:28:23] Participant: Umm, I'm not... See, because at the end of the day, they're still disasters like this. Like, there's still natural disasters, so I think that, like, it-- like better is a relative term, you know?-- Like people are still going to, like, I think it's inevitable that people are still going to pass away; things are still going to be destroyed. So I think that, like the system we have now could be improved, but I think that, like, I don't think any system is going to be perfect. So, yeah. I, I think that it could be improved, but I don't know if it can be, like, I don't think it can be that much better, honestly.

[00:29:24] Interviewer: Are there any other-- so we did, we have been going for almost half an hour now, and you have explained a lot of your thinking-- are there any other thoughts that you have right now about this topic of disaster or evacuation?

[00:29:40] Participant: Um, not, not entirely. Um, I just think it's interesting how the government usually is more keen to evacuate people who are more-- they are more keen to help people of higher income areas, like, how you saw. Like, we had the disasters in Texas and Puerto Rico back to back. When Trump was in office, there was a lot more aid to the people in Texas than there was in Puerto Rico, and there's, there's always been that divide. And you can see and you saw that it was like Katrina, because there's just a lot of lower income people who live there. And so I think that that's always going to be a factor, unfortunately, because the government doesn't really care about poor people. And so, yeah. And that, that's kind of why that trust doesn't exist, because they never really show any compassion or care for its people of lower income.

[00:30:50] Interviewer: Yeah. So, after all this interaction, discussion, if you can-- I mean, this is hypothetically speaking, and, and it's, it's the same not necessarily because you have to close your eyes-- but if you were to close your eyes and imagine an evacuation center you're going, like happening, how would you like to give, like, a short... no, it doesn't have to be super short, but like a varied description-- this is what happens when a hurricane is approaching and then there needs to be an evacuation.

[00:31:19] Participant: Um. OK, so I would describe it as everybody who has the means needs to leave. The people who don't need to reach out for help in any way they can. And the government needs to be the one who needs to, like, help those people. Yeah.

[00:31:55] Interviewer: These are all my questions for today. Do you have any other comments or thoughts?

[00:32:02] Participant: Um. No, not really. 

[00:32:05] Interviewer: Okay, so let's stop the recording right now. Perfect. This is literally what we will do one more time, and it's going to be on the same topic, because I want to give you a few more days to, to think about this topic, perhaps, you know. And then maybe, like, what-- like, it doesn't have to be any different. You don't have to go and read about this. The idea is for this to be a natural interaction. It's almost like we are discussing about this stuff, you know-- talking about this topic, you know? And then two days later, three days, a week later, as friends, we met again, and I was, like, &quot;Oh hey. I want to talk to you about the hurricanes again, again,&quot; you know. It should be as natural as possible. If you feel like going around and looking things, it's perfectly fine, too. If you feel like just coming back again and just talking freely and expressing your ideas, it's perfectly fine, too. 

[00:33:05] Participant: Okay. Cool. 

[00:33:06] Interviewer: Do you have any questions on the record or thoughts before I stop recording? 

[00:33:11] Participant: No. I'm good. 

[00:33:13] Interviewer: So, let me stop.

