[00:00:00] Interviewer: Tell me to stop recording at any moment. And then, let me share my screen... so before I share my screen, do you remember our last meeting? 

[00:00:10] Participant: Yeah, we talked about Hurricane, Hurricane Katrina, and like evacuations. 

[00:00:16] Interviewer: Mm hmm. Can you tell me-- as much as you remember the meeting-- like what, what are the things that were left in your mind?

[00:00:21] Participant: Um, we were talking about, like, the process of evacuations, and like what process could make that run kind of, like, as smoothly as possible and kind of what parties are involved to kind of make that run as smoothly as possible.

[00:00:35] Interviewer: Mm hmm. So, the topic was, so what happened was, I showed you just a story on-- I can share the story now-- I showed you the story on just Hurricane Ida happening and the thing that really caught your attention and that you wanted to focus on was the process of evacuation, right? In the second meeting, we will just continue talking about this, and I will try to get as much of your thinking and reasoning as possible on the record. If we were to talk about the process of evacuation-- anything that really comes to your mind, anything that you want to talk about anything that you want to expand-- can you just give me your free flowing thoughts?

[00:01:21] Participant: Um. So, I guess, umm, I guess they have to be more... I guess one thing that, like, the United States has to get better is, like, implementing them more, like, widespreadly throughout like the United States. Like, I think when people hear about hurricanes in the United States and all natural disasters, really, like, we don't take it very seriously. And I think that's because we don't really trust our government. So, I feel like that's kind of why nobody really evacuates when those disasters kind of strike, and that's why we have such like fatal natural disasters. Um, so I think that we kind of could be better at fixing that process of making people, like, either trust more or fixing lengthy that like we're making it kind of mandated, I guess, but it's kind of hard to mandate to, like, force people to leave so, yeah. 

[00:02:31] Interviewer: Yeah. So before even going there, what happens in an evacuation scenario? What happens when the news start coming that there's going to be a hurricane hitting, hitting the area? What happens?

[00:02:44] Participant: Um, so I think most people it depends on like the severity of the hurricane. At least, like, I know where I live, I lived through like a couple hurricanes like in my town, but like a lot of them haven't been very bad, so, like, we don't really leave. We kind of just hang out in the House. Um, and so, like, usually, when people hear, like, at least where I live, if you hear about a hurricane, you kind of just stay where you are. Umm, but I know like, if you, because I live in Maryland, and so but I know if you like, live closer to the shore, umm, like, if you live in Ocean City, you live in Annapolis, it's kind of a bigger deal when those cities flood a lot. So, those people might want to hear, "A hurricane's coming. You need to evacuate," they might take it more seriously than someone living kind of closer to Baltimore where I live. Like, we don't get hurricanes, like, like serious hurricanes, all that often. 

[00:03:54] Interviewer: And you know that this study is more about how you reason about it rather than what you know about that you know, like it's... So, I am living in Chicago. I don't know nothing about hurricanes, you know, so I can definitely relate to that. But if you were to just think, like, if you were to hypothesize what happens in Louisiana when a hurricane is right about there, for you to just hypothetically describe it.

[00:04:16] Participant: I would imagine, like if they heard that like a cat, I would imagine it would depend on the, like, severity of the hurricane. Like, if they would hear, like, a hurricane, like a category one hurricane was coming, like, I don't, I don't think they would do much, because I feel like that would that's kind of more common place than, than it would be like if... I feel like a Category like, I feel like if even a Category, like, two or, three, hurricane, like, I feel, like, people who have hurricanes happen to them more often like in Louisiana in Florida, and like that kind of in those States may be more likely to stay where they are rather than if a Category three hurricane was coming to Maryland. Like that, I think, I would leave, because I don't know what to expect, but I think they more know what to expect, so they might be more likely to stay, because they kind of know what's going to happen.

[00:05:11] Interviewer: And then, if you were to describe like a movie scenario, this happens first, the second second, and this happens, how would you describe it? 

[00:05:19] Participant: Um, I think the first thing that would happen is kind of people would find out there's a hurricane coming so whether that be like news people or whoever finds out that hurricane is happening and then they inform the general public that a hurricane is coming. And then I think people make a decision, and I think that decision is either to stay where they are and kind of buckle down and kind of prepare for the hurricane, or leave and go somewhere else for the hurricane, and then the hurricane happens, and then you have to kind of repair wherever you are after the hurricane.

[00:05:58] Interviewer: Okay. Um, before I get into specific questions, did you get a chance, did you ever think about this question, the hurricanes or evacuation in between the two meetings?

[00:06:12] Participant: Not really.

[00:06:13] Interviewer: Not really? Okay, and that's perfectly fine, because, right, like the idea was that it will just be-- this will be a normal natural conversation. When you think about the hurricane situation and the things that we talked about last week, you mentioned a lot of things, and I don't want to impact the way you think. So, I want to first ask you, like, "Do you remember the concepts or ideas that you brought up in the previous meetings?"

[00:06:44] Participant: Um, I think I remember one thing about, like, building trust between communities and government, how, like, that was an important aspect to making sure that evacuations work. Um, and I don't think that evacuations, can work if the government, or if the people don't trust their government. Um, besides that, I don't really remember much of us with what I said. Yeah. 

[00:07:15] Interviewer: Let's talk about the trust. Like, what does trust look like in this in this case?

[00:07:20] Participant: Um, so I think trust looks like so I think, umm, I'm not exactly sure of what trust looks like. I think that community, I think that, like, a lot of lower income people don't benefit from like, like the way our government is set up, just because, like, politicians don't really work for people for lower income people. Um, so I feel like that causes a distrust in government. And, I guess, I guess, to flip off that, trust would look like the politicians are working for those lower income people, or, like, trying to better their lives in some way that doesn't come with, like, that double edged sword of, "Well, I'm going to help you, but you have to vote for me," or "I'm going to help you and we're, we can give you this, but we're going to take this away." Or... Yeah, because I think that often happens in lower income, in lower income areas, where it's, like, well, we'll build you a school, but we're going to tear down the Community Center or something like that, or like gentrification of areas where they're, like, building up the area, but they're, like, tearing down like mom and pop shops, or like, you know, it's, it's, I think a lot of stuff like that takes away trust in an area from, like, local government, from the Community. So, I guess working to build that back and just working for the people instead of working for themselves.

[00:08:55] Interviewer: Yeah. So, one of the things is, like, to put all these together, right, like the, these bits and pieces together in an explanation. So, if you were to explain an evacuation scenario-- and then you mentioned that some people evacuated and some people don't evacuate-- so there's just this suboptimal situation, because we want people to evacuate so that they are safe and they don't get dead: that's my understanding. Why do you think these evacuation issues happen if you were to just explain again?

[00:09:28] Participant: I think that these issues happen because people don't... I think they happen to one of two, one of two reasons. I think they either happened because: (a) they don't have the means to evacuate, or (b) they don't take the hurricane as seriously, because they don't trust the people who are giving them the information. Um, and I think that's caused by, like, the distrust in, in the government, in the media, and that's because of that, of all those issues said, you know, mentioned before. 

[00:10:06] Interviewer: Perfect. And then what happens to-- the evacuation situation happened. Some people evacuate, some people didn't evacuate-- what happens afterwards?

[00:10:16] Participant: Um, so I think that afterwards, after the hurricane has passed, umm, obviously, you have you probably have some fatalities. You have some people who pass away. Um, and I think that the next step is rebuilding the Community, and I think that, that can also build trust within a community. Like with the local government and, like, in the federal government, like caring for the Community, and I think that also, like, even if you talking about Katrina again, that also, like, took a lot of, like, trust away from the Federal Government, because, like, there was no aid for those people, um and so that... So, people who evacuated come back and I feel like now, now it's just about like rebuilding the Community to try to get it back to where it was. Um, yeah. It's just, just about building back. Yeah, and that kind of falls in the hands of the people who have money, the people who have kind of power to do that, and that's kind of the government's responsibility.

[00:11:18] Interviewer: Perfect. And what are the parts or actors of this whole system, of this whole situation?

[00:11:27] Participant: Um, so I think it kind of falls into two main groups, and then those two groups kind of have two subgroups each. So, I think you have the government, and you have the communities. And I think within the government, you have your state and your local governments, and they're working alongside the federal government. And then I think you have your, your general Community, your general Community, and then I think you have your upper middle class people who have, who have a little bit more money, and I think you have your lower income people who don't necessarily have as much money. Hmm. Um, yeah. So, I think those are kind of the four groups, the four main groups.

[00:12:11] Interviewer: So, state government, local government, people in the Community-- there are people who had opportunity to evacuate and people who don't have the opportunity to evacuate. So, can you-- if you were to describe each one a little bit, how would you describe the state government? 

[00:12:28] Participant: Um, so I think the state government is... Those are your mayors, those are your I'm trying to think of the other words-- but those are the people who are kind of in charge locally. Those are people who are asking the federal government for aid. Those are your kind of representatives of the Community. And yet

[00:12:54] Interviewer: This is the local government level or the federal? Sorry, I think I'm confused. You mentioned federal government and local government, right? Yeah, so you mentioned the local government? How about the federal government?

[00:13:08] Participant: So, I think the federal government... That's kind of like, that's kind of like the, that system I can't think of the name of that, that program that was set up but there's like, there's like a federal relief program that's set up by the President. I can't think of the name, but it's like a federal program that comes out when there's at one of the natural disasters, that would be, that would be a federal government type thing. Um, but yeah. Like, when you have, like, the National Guard come in, like that's Federal Government. Um, if the President gets involved, like that's the national government or the federal government. Um, yeah. That, like, those types of things. 

[00:13:48] Interviewer: And what does the Federal Government do in this situation? 

[00:13:51] Participant: I think the federal government is there to support whatever the state and the local government is kind of doing in place to help the people. And if it, if it's like multiple states, I think that they're kind of like trying to unify, kinda, and try to help as many people as possible, but I think their main role is just to support like to support, whatever the state and local government is doing.

[00:14:16] Interviewer: And how, how does support look like? Like, what, what did they do to support? What are the mechanisms?

[00:14:21] Participant: Mainly like financially, I would assume. Because, you know, like, that's kind of their response. It's like their responsibility to take care of the people after something like this happens. So, like, you know, like not, like not, like some States are better off than others, so, like, some states need extra help after a hurricane happens. And so, like, they need money to like rebuild stuff. So, like, that would be where the federal government steps in and helps out with money and aid and things like that.

[00:14:53] Interviewer: And then the local-- what does the local government do?

[00:14:56] Participant: Um, I think the local government's responsibility is to, like, organize and reach out for that help and kind of just keep everything, like, just run everything organized, everything like kind of on the ground, but I guess that would be their responsibility.

[00:15:14] Interviewer: And what are the mechanisms they would achieve that?

[00:15:18] Participant: Um, I'm not sure. Uh, yeah. I'm not, I'm not entirely sure.

[00:15:26] Interviewer: How about the people? For example, the people who have opportunities to evacuate, what did they do in this circumstance?

[00:15:36] Participant: Um, so I guess that we just leave and then, when they come back, I guess, their responsibility would to be to just repair what they can so, I guess, if you have, if you have an opportunity, or if you have the opportunity to repair something, if you have the financial means to repair your community, I would assume it was kind of your responsibility to do so. So, like, if you, you know, if you own a business and you have the money to do so, it, it will be your responsibility to repair your business rather than take money from the government, when that money is set aside for people who can't afford to repair their businesses or repair their homes. So...

[00:16:16] Interviewer: Yeah. How about the ones who don't have the opportunities, financial or...?

[00:16:22] Participant: I would assume that they're, like, kind of just waiting for other people to help them and just to kind of not riot, or not like be upset, not or just be patient, I guess, would be their responsibility to just be.

[00:16:47] Interviewer: How do these different groups interact? For example, how does the local government interact with the people who just have no opportunities to evacuate themselves? 

[00:16:52] Participant: Um, I think the local government would have to interact with those people. I think they would have to... I think they would have to remind them, to be patient. I think they'd have to make sure that whatever meets... whatever, like, aid they have, they make sure that they get to those people first and make sure that they're getting it out quickly. And they're getting just getting it out there. I think, I think communication is important in this kind of situation. And so I think it would be the, the local government's responsibility to make sure that communication stays open with the people, especially lower income people who really need help. Umm, not to say that the communication with the upper middle class people aren't important, but I think that it's really important with the people who actually need help. 

[00:17:39] Interviewer: Umm, how do the people-- for example, like, if you think about the state and local governments-- how does the state and local government interact?

[00:17:51] Participant: So, I think the state and local government... I think the state and local government would have to reach out for help from the Federal Government. Um, and I think that's kind of their whole responsibility, and I think the federal government would have to respond in like a timely manner and, like, not leave people out for a couple days, because, like, a couple of days is more than a couple days when you're kind of dealing with a natural disaster. You don't have a place to go. Um, so, yeah. I think that it's just kind of their responsibility to make sure that the aid gets where it needs to go, and I think it's the state and local responsibility to ask for it, and it's a federal government's responsibility to give it.

[00:18:32] Interviewer: Yeah. Perfect. So, if you remember the last meeting, we did like is sketching, right? Can do another one for me?

[00:18:44] Participant: Sure. 

[00:18:44] Interviewer: To represent, to show me your thinking today?

[00:19:19] Participant: So, what am I supposed to be sketching?

[00:19:21] Interviewer: Just the whole situation, your understanding, if you were to explain to me or another person what's going on in the whole situation. When the hurricane is approaching, evacuation needs to be done, all the parts and actors, how they interact-- you know, it's totally up to you. If you were to just explain it to me with a sketch, how would you explain it? And please do take your time.

[00:19:58] Participant: So, I kind of started with this. So, this is the first part. So, I have heard, and I have some people stay and some people evacuate. And that all equals to destroyed homes and buildings. People who have evacuate go to safety, but it all ends up to their homes and businesses are destroyed. So, this is the bottom part. And so, I have state and local government need to ask for aid from the Federal Government. And then I said it goes to people in need first, and then it goes to everybody else. And so people in need are lower income people, and everybody else is people in middle and Upper class. At the lower income people are people who stayed, and the upper middle class are the people who left. So, yeah.

[00:23:44] Interviewer: Perfect. Can you take a piece of it and send it to me via the chat after the meeting? 

[00:23:50] Participant: Yep.

[00:23:51] Interviewer: Okay, do you have the other one lying around?

[00:23:53] Participant: On the back.

[00:23:55] Interviewer: Perfect. That will be great if you can take pictures of those.

[00:23:57] Participant: Yeah. 

[00:23:58] Interviewer: Great. So, now you have them both back-and-back and back-and-forth. What do you see as the difference between the two?

[00:24:04] Participant: Um... So, I think I see a lot more of, umm... I think the difference is, this one focuses on more like the process of evacuation, and this one kind of focuses on the aftermath of the evacuation, like, what happens afterwards. 

[00:24:25] Interviewer: And it's really interesting, because you did use arrows to represent relationships or one happens, the second thing happens, but you use this little circle to represent the hurricane. Why did you choose the circle?

[00:24:40] Participant: Um, 'cause I thought it kind of looked like hurricanes are usually likes, like spherical.

[00:24:44] Interviewer: Oh, yeah.

[00:24:46] Participant: Um, so, yeah. I can't really draw a hurricane, so that was the closest I could get to a hurricane.

[00:24:52] Interviewer: Yeah. Would changing-- so, you created this, like, system in your sketch-- would changing any bits and pieces in the system change the overall outcome?

[00:25:05] Participant: Um, I think that if more people evacuated, or if everybody evacuated, more people would be safe. Um, I think that could be, like, you know, better? Um, yeah. I think that might be the only thing that could be improved.

[00:25:29] Interviewer: And what would help evacuate more people? 

[00:25:33] Participant: I think more aid from people who, like, need help getting out of, like, the way of the hurricane. 

[00:25:39] Interviewer: Let me get my notes. Okay. Almost done. If you were to give any more thoughts that you have-- you know, 3-4 minutes before we finish-- what else would you like to say about this topic?

[00:25:56] Participant: Um, I'm not sure. So, I guess, I guess it's just a need for more, like, support from the government in lower income areas, and I guess it kind of just, like, in areas that don't have a lot of people of class, like an evacuation system that works, isn't there. Um, and I think that that is kind of evidence of how America kind of treats lower income people. Yeah, so. Yeah, that's kind of it, though. Yeah.

[00:26:36] Interviewer: How would an evacuation system that really works look like? What would it look like hypothetically speaking?

[00:26:42] Participant: Um, I think that it would work how like, like, everybody would be out of harm's way. I think everybody would leave, and then it would be... like in a perfect world, I think that, like, it would be kind of like mandated for everybody to leave, because some people don't know what's good for them. And so, like, some people will be stubborn and say, "I'm not leaving my house." Um, but, like, that's not really the safest thing to do, so... But, obviously, I know that that's not realistic. So, um, I think everybody will leave and, like, the area would be completely empty until the hurricane has passed. And then people would come back, and there would be federal aid and state aid and, like, all types of money put into the area to build it back up from the damage the hurricane had caused. And then we go about our day, and that would kind of, be it. Um, and I think that would cause no casualties, which I kind of think it's kind of the goal with natural disasters. Um, yeah. I think that would be kind of the ideal situation.

[00:27:53] Interviewer: Perfect, and almost done. Any more closing thoughts about hurricanes or or evacuation?

[00:28:02] Participant: Umm, not really. Uh, yeah. Not really.

[00:28:13] Interviewer: Okay, great. And before finishing, I want to, like, ask a couple other questions to help me, because when I collect this data and I present the data, it really helps to tell the reader a little bit about who this person was getting their ideas, you know? But it has to be only the things that you're comfortable disclosing and you're comfortable being, you know? So as much as you're comfortable with, can you tell me a little bit about yourself?

[00:28:38] Participant: Sure. So I am an 18 year old college student. I go to Morgan State University. Um, what about myself? I, I'm a history major and a minor in English, and... see, I don't know what I would say about myself.

[00:29:03] Interviewer: Yeah, feel free to share as much as you're comfortable with, yeah.

[00:29:06] Participant: Yeah, yeah. I live in Maryland. Um... 

[00:29:11] Interviewer: Perfect. Well, that's pretty much it. Do you have anything else to say on the record before we finish?

[00:29:17] Participant: Nope. It was lovely. Lovely being here, lovely speaking with you.

[00:29:22] Interviewer: It was lovely speaking with you, too. Let me stop recording.

