[00:00:00] Interviewer: So, this meeting is the final meeting of our project, and this will be a reflection meeting. 

[00:00:10] Participant_Walt: All right. 

[00:00:10] Interviewer: I will ask some open ended questions, and it will be more like a discussion. There are some things that I didn't ask you as you were developing your model, because I didn't want to slow down your thinking, you know? I influenced your thinking along the process, you know, like, I. There were things that made me curious. "Why did you do it this way?" But I didn't ask those to make sure that we are focused on implementing your ideas into code. 

[00:00:32] Participant_Walt: Yeah. 

[00:00:33] Interviewer: Today's the time to ask that, and the very first question I ask is, to get started, can you describe your model?

[00:00:44] Participant_Walt: So the model that we ended up been creating is a quote unquote political model, which is supposed to model the relationship between. Or at least, I don't really know how politics works outside of America, at least in America, of the majority being Republicans and Democrats. Trying to model the relationship between the distribution of Republicans and Democrats within the country and seeing how that distribution changes over time.

[00:01:22] Interviewer: And what were some of the ideas that you implemented in the model?

[00:01:28] Participant_Walt: Okay, so let me try to remember everything, or at least most of the stuff that we worked on. So, so, there was a population size of 100, just to be consistent, and then there were randomly one, there was randomly, like, one of each political party to kind of, like, start, at least, start the whole process. They moved around randomly, because, I mean, I couldn't really think of a better way to describe, to at least model the movement of people, because I thought there could be so much different possibilities that just moving around randomly might as well have been the best option, or at least the best option I could have thought up in those 10 minutes or an hour, and then. Yeah, they move around. Each, each political party member has seldom influence, where anyone who comes in to contact them often, or in our case five times, will, I guess, become influenced, and then like, change into that political party, where they would fill up their own zone of influence. And that'll just keep continuing until all of the, all of the people in the population have been converted to one thing or the other. And then, once that happened, just I, we, selected one influencer from each political party, which was determined by the person with the most exposure to the political party and, therefore, potentially, the person with the best knowledge of the values behind that political party, as well as the best way to talk that will convince other people. Yeah, so, influencers, and because they are influencers, they don't change political parties. They will always be on that same political party, because they are trying to recruit, in a sense, for the party, which would help, you know, of course: the more people you have, the more political say you have in our government. So, they would, they had, like, doubled their zone of influence, they would go around that, trying to group people. Whoever came into their zone of influence, we just did an instant conversion, because, I'll be honest, like, just, like, I just like the distribution, the variance and distribution, a lot better than when there was a minimum amount of exposure that needed to occur. It was like less centered into that 50 50, and it went kind of like. It distributed a bit or varied, which I really. I think that's good, which is why I kept the instant conversion. But in addition, everyone on the population that wasn't an influencer had a seldom influence that was, like, perhaps eight, I believe. And if they kind of detected the influencer, they would just, they would be, like, turned off. The way I saw it is, if you're scrolling through the news, you're, you're going to tend to go towards the people in the news that kind of support your ideas. On social media, it's what support their ideas, and content has the whole confirmation bias going on, so if you see someone who's not on the, on your political party on the news, then you're kind of, like, turned off. You're, like, "Eh, maybe I don't want to deal with this," so I, the radius is just, like, "Yeah, they come in too close, if they detect an influencer, they'll kind of just, like. I forgot if it was that they'll instantly go away, or if there's a 50% chance of them going away.

[00:05:46] Interviewer: I think we implemented the instant. No, 50%. That's, that's right. We implemented the 50%.

[00:05:52] Participant_Walt: Okay. 

[00:05:52] Interviewer: But let me double check. Maybe we didn't remove the 50% chance. Let me see. Influencer turning away from. Yeah, we did actually initially implemented 50%, and then we removed it.

[00:06:12] Participant_Walt: So, it is 100% to kind of go away. Okay. Yeah, I mean, I just guessed it. Yeah. I mean, at the same time, I think I still am kind of, like, in a way, I think I am still trying to justify myself in these decisions. In a way, like, Ideally, I want, I want to think in a way that's, like, "Okay, I have an idea implemented. Let's see the results." But I mentioned this last time, I do think I am still, like, results driven in a sense, because what I've noticed is, I would determine the results and be, like, "I'll go back to my decision." I'd be, like, "Yeah! That was a good decision!" Or something like that, you know? So, I do think I'm still thinking in that way, but I mean, I mean, currently, I can't change that now, right?

[00:07:07] Interviewer: This was a great summary, and I have quite a few questions, but we'll be able to circle back, if I. I will try to not forget those. Where did the idea come from? You know, like, how did you come up with this idea in the first place?

[00:07:22] Participant_Walt: Um, so, for me, personally, I find a lot of interest in abstract concepts, and one of the most, in my personal opinion, one of the most fascinating things is human social networks, or just social networks in general. Like, there's other stuff: the animal kingdom has ants, which have, like, really complex social structures. But I found social structures to be really interesting, and I'm pretty sure I mentioned this at our very first meeting, but, like, I just find it really fascinating that even though humans have gotten to a level where. I don't want to say our technology is, like, super advanced, like, you never know what's going to happen in the next 20 years, century, whatever. But, I mean, from where we were before, we have definitely progressed, notably. And what really fascinates me is, like, despite all that progress in technology, our biology hasn't really grown at, like, the same rate, because we're, like, "Sure, our technology is different, but we're still the same humans that we were from hundred, maybe thousand years ago." Like, we, it's still the same ideas behind creating social structures. It's a little bit different because social media does kind of. I, from what I've seen, social media acts as a catalyst towards the influencing of these, like, tribal behaviors. But, yeah, I've always found it really fascinating, and it's kinda, like, the first thing I came to. When I decided, I want to try to make a model, just a rough model of, in order to see what can explain this, of what aspects due to our biology results in these behaviors, and, I mean, I just went straight to politics, because that's, like, that's, like, the golden standard for tribalism, or, at least, that's what I parsed in.

[00:09:46] Interviewer: Are you interested in politics also, or politics was a more easily accessible topic for you? That's why you picked it? 

[00:09:54] Participant_Walt: Um, okay. So, for me, politics is a love hate relationship. I, on one hand, I do, I find it fascinating, because, well, one: I, I actually used to be, actually, used to do some climate activism, like, I don't know if I've ever mentioned that, so I find it really fascinating that, if you know how to, if you know how the system works, you can work towards, like, change, because, because most people only know about, like, the presidential elections, or, like, senate elections, those really big ones. What a lot of people tend to miss out on is, like, maybe, like, state or city level, umm.

[00:10:50] Interviewer: Yeah.

[00:10:51] Participant_Walt: State or city level elections, which have, like, arguably, more of an influence in, like, your own personal life, because they're the state or the city you live in, so, yeah. I, I find it fascinating that, like, if you know how it works, then, in a way, you can make it work for you, and then going back to what I've mentioned earlier, I find that really fascinating how these tribes have developed over the past year, and, I mean, I don't really have too much an opinion on it. I mean, I've, I've definitely read other places that, "Like, oh, yeah. You know, social media and, like, things have gotten more divisive in the past few years," but that could just as easily be confirmation bias, which is why I don't want to have, like, a for sure opinion yet. So, but on the other hand, I do really hate it, because it, because at its root, tribalism seems really childish. It's, like, we're, we're full grown adults, and the arguments that we're making, in order to justify what we do in society, it, and attacking each other. It, it just, it hurts to watch personally, which is why I kind of stopped the activism thing, like, a while back, yeah.

[00:12:18] Interviewer: So, as far as you're comfortable, can you tell. You don't have to disclose anything. You can pass any questions, and you should feel free to not disclose anything if you don't feel comfortable, if you don't prefer to, but as long as you're comfortable. Can you tell me a bit about your activism history?

[00:12:35] Participant_Walt: Okay, so, let's see. I'm not. Wait, you're in Chicago, in Chicago. Umm, a lot, a few years back, by any chance, have you seen, like, the. Have you seen, or have you, umm, or was there in Chicago, like, a so called "Global Climate Strike?" I'm not sure if you, uh, if you've seen that in, like, maybe, like, two or three years ago? 

[00:13:10] Interviewer: Two, three years ago? "Global Climate Strike?" There was one thing like that. Was it the time when people turned off their lights? 

[00:13:19] Participant_Walt: Turn off their lights? I'm not sure. 

[00:13:23] Interviewer: Turning off the lights and going dark for a few minutes, coordinated. I don't remember. There was something like that, but it may not be the same thing. I don't.

[00:13:34] Participant_Walt: I just wanna ask, say, but, yeah. Basically, I mean, to be honest, I have, I have always had, like, a, I guess, a, I don't, I don't, I don't wanna call it passion. I, it's like, it's like between a hobby and a passion, somewhere in the middle, but, like, yeah. Somewhere in the middle of that, but I've, climate change has always, like, bugged me, especially, like, two, three years ago. I've kind of eased up now, which is maybe not good, maybe, but, I mean, I just, I guess, I just got tired of the politics. But, yeah, I, I always have, like, had an interest. I, like, I'm the type of person that used to be, like, oh, with my parents, like, if they came out of the room and they didn't turn off the light, like, I would literally, I would actually get irritated a little, but, yeah, I used to be that kind of person, to be honest, and a couple years back, I, I'm not sure what exactly sparked it. It was in my, like, sophomore year of high school, I want to say, where I read an article, and it was around the time where, before, those global climate strikes were happening, and I, I just got out, was, like, "Oh, my gosh. We really should do something about this, like, now." Right? So, and then I thought to myself. Because back then, I actually, probably, would have wanted to pursue a career in, that dealt with climate change, so, like, an engineer who helps with renewable energy issues. That was like my career path back then. So I was, like, "What? Why should I wait until, like, after I finish college to, like, try to tackle these issues?" Because they're urgent, I guess. Yeah. So, I got, I did a bunch of research, and I made. I contacted a bunch of organizational, local organizations that dealt with it in Illinois. I just kind of networked from there became a part of their efforts for, like, I want to say, like, six months? 

[00:16:12] Interviewer: Mm hmm. 

[00:16:12] Participant_Walt: Yeah, let's say for, like, six months, where one of our biggest things was, we held like a climate strike on the, at the Capitol, where we, it was, like, you know, raising signs. It was, like, a peaceful kind of a march signs, you know, nothing too crazy. But there were, like, 1000 or so people at the Capitol, which was really cool. Or actually, there might have been more, I forgot. But, yeah. I, I just, back then, I was, like, "I just want to become a part of it, and I just want to have an impact." Because I know that I can, if I, you know, or, I mean, that's a good life lesson now, because I plan on still kind of applying it where, like, if I want to do something, I don't need to wait till after I finished college. I'll just do it now, but, yeah. That's how I got really involved in it, but, and I was, I was doing it for, like I said, six months, but what really got me, kind of pushed me away was the whole political aspect of it, because what I wanted out of contributing to climate change was something that was non political, something, like, technological, I hope that makes sense, but, I mean, after seeing how angry people could get. Both on the side that I was speaking for and the side I was speaking against. Because, yeah, um, because the thing about the political climate activism scene is, it's really and it's heavily intertwined with, like, others' political stuff, which I didn't expect. So there's a whole, like, racial, like, yeah, there's climate change, but then it's also intertwined with, like, racial, the issue of race, the issue of indigenous, indigenous people, and I was, like, "This is not what I signed up for, right? This is absolutely not what I signed up for." Like, I respect it, but it's not what I signed up for, and also it didn't help that, uh. Okay, I'm just making sure my dad. My dad is, like, for my parents are, like, Asian, so they kind of meet the stereotype where they always want, you know, like, focus on school, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, but it was really hard. When I was trying to, like, reach out to extracurricular stuff, and they would always. They wouldn't like look down on me. But I could tell they were, what they were kind of thinking.

[00:19:16] Interviewer: I can relate. 

[00:19:17] Participant_Walt: Yeah, and then I was, like, I just thought I was starting to distance myself from them, which. And, and then the pandemic came, so it's literally just, literally, everything just came crashing down, yeah. That's why I decided to just take my leave. Sorry, that was, like, a lot.

[00:19:39] Interviewer: No, that's great. I mean, that's rich for me. Circling back to the, to the time that you found climate important, do you remember that article that you read? What the article was about?

[00:19:51] Participant_Walt: Um, I'll be honest. It was probably one of, like, the, one of the, like, super, like, I don't remember the exact name, but it was definitely one of, like ,the super alert articles that were saying a bunch of, like, number. Numerical statements. 

[00:20:11] Interviewer: Yeah. 

[00:20:11] Participant_Walt: And then, also. Actually, have you ever heard of Greta Thunberg? 

[00:20:16] Interviewer: Yeah. 

[00:20:17] Participant_Walt: Yeah, yeah. It was around the time when she was first getting up there. So, it was her and then also a bunch of numerical statements. I don't want to say "facts" to their statistics, because it's not 100% yet. I mean, but, yeah, there's, there's a lot of bad math. I don't remember the exact one that's what I'm trying to. 

[00:20:42] Interviewer: Were they, like, projections into the future?

[00:20:44] Participant_Walt: Yeah.

[00:20:45] Interviewer: Okay. And another interesting question is, like, you were interested in climate change more than politics. You actually stopped looking at the climate change. You just stopped your climate change activism, or paused it, because of the political issues? Why did you not decide to create, like, a climate change model instead? 

[00:21:06] Participant_Walt: Oh, why?

[00:21:07] Interviewer: Why did you not decide to work on a climate change model with me, instead of politics model? Was there, like, something, like, more, like, interesting and intriguing about politics? Like, why did you not want to create a model where you tried to see if those projections. How those projections. Will play out?

[00:21:25] Participant_Walt: Oh, I see. I'll be honest. Like I said, umm when, like, a year and a half ago, when, like, everything came down crashing, at least in terms of climate change, for me, I've honestly, like, even though I'm not sure if I look like it or not, but I'm still, like, kind of recovering from that, because it was, it was probably, like, the lowest point in my life at that point, but umm, so, I'm still kind of recovering from it, so, I guess, I didn't really want to touch on it as much, but. I mean, personally, I don't find climate change that fascinating, because I, the way I see it, is the only thing stopping us from climate change, solving climate change, is politics. 

[00:22:19] Interviewer: I see. 

[00:22:20] Participant_Walt: Yeah. That, that's the way I see it. So, so, that's why I found politics a much more interesting model, because, I mean, if you can, politics is, like, the gate and the, and the key to, like, a bunch of stuff that's not, that's not limited to climate change. There's, like, so much stuff that could be. The way I see it. There's so much stuff that could happen in this world, but it's, like, it's kind of restrained dued to politics and human tribalism, social networks, and all of that stuff, which is why I find it really fascinating. I'm, like, "You know, we could, could. I'm not sure. We might even be able to, like, have, like, a base on Mars already, but, like, you know, people are fighting about this, all their stuff," so, I mean, we're gonna have to wait a little bit, and that's it.

[00:23:13] Interviewer: You found that almost, in a word, in a way, it's going to be putting words in your mouth, but the pettiness in the politics way more fascinating than the actual science of climate change. You are more convinced that, if you do the right thing, we can resolve climate change, and the right things are there, you know, whatever, you know: reduce carbon emissions, don't use renewable energy, etc. But you are unsure how to solve the politics issue. Did I put it? Did I summarized correctly?

[00:23:46] Participant_Walt: Yeah, yeah. In a way, yeah. Pretty much. I mean, I, I'll admit that, like, I haven't really done my research on climate change solution technologies, but the way I see it is, if, if they were, if they were funded to the point that, like, some other stuff could be funded, then I'm sure a lot of progress could be made, and that's just being held back by the whole politics thing.

[00:24:17] Interviewer: That's super interesting, because this, this conversation really will help me to create the, the data that I collected during our interviews, you know?

[00:24:26] Participant_Walt: That's great.

[00:24:27] Interviewer: Does that, did this model, for example, like, this participant created a model like this. This is my analysis of this model. Then I will be able to tell, like, "What's the genesis of this model? Where did it come from?" So, that's, that's why I'm asking these questions.

[00:24:41] Participant_Walt: Yeah.

[00:24:44] Interviewer: In terms of modeling the politics, was there any, were there any thoughts, previous thoughts, or anything that you were exposed to, let's say, a movie, a show, something you read, something you've seen, thought about, that impacted the way you modeled it here?

[00:25:11] Participant_Walt: I mean, I'll be honest. The very, this isn't a, a very significant thing. I can probably think of something significant. But the first thing that jumps to my mind, I mean, it was literally you in the first session. You were showing the examples of what can be modeled, and I just, I just distinctly remembering the chain, the chain link, the chain linking sample that you were showing, and, I mean, that kind of just clicked with me with, like, "Oh, modeling people, modeling social networks. That can be really cool," which, which I, I kind of just, like, was, I guess, inspired by that example, because, otherwise, honestly, otherwise, I might have still went to politics, to be honest, but it might have not have been as clear or, like, that sure. But influencing the way I model?

[00:26:14] Interviewer: You know, any, anything that you think relates to the way your model works, but it doesn't have to be anything, really, like this. This is clearly something we constructed on the fly, so it doesn't always have to be necessarily, like, questions. Answers to these questions can be, like, "I'm not sure," so.

[00:26:35] Participant_Walt: Um. Yeah. I am, I'm honestly not sure right now, 'cause like I said, like I mentioned earlier, I, I do think I am, was, being, like, results driven with this model, so I was. Really, what ended up happening is my end goal of the model ended up being trying to create, like, a back and forth kind of, and I was just trying to, just try my best to think of factors and then translate that into, like, a way to model it where it would end up with a result that did go back and forth. So, yeah, it wasn't really based off anything. I was just using, I was just using. Ah, well, I started off my goal of going back and forth, and I was just using my knowledge of the politics scene, my rough knowledge of it, to try and create factors that would result in that back and forth.

[00:27:54] Interviewer: Perfect. So, let me share the screen with you, so that we can look at the model, what we are talking about. I will ask some specific questions about the way the model works. Yeah, so, one of the things from the get go is, you said you wanted 100 people. Why did you choose that number 100? Why not 1000, 10,000, 1,000,050? Why did you go with 100?

[00:28:32] Participant_Walt: I mean, I just chose it because it's really easy base number. I thought it wouldn't crowd. It would have a good sample size without crowding the screen, that's really it, honestly.

[00:28:34] Interviewer: And the other question I have is that you started these people just in the middle uninfluenced. Why did you choose to start them uninfluenced? You only had two people who were on one side or the other. Why did you choose the rest as uninfluenced instead of maybe randomly making them uninfluenced? Maybe half blue, half red? Maybe 20 blue, 20 red. 50 uninfluenced. Like, why did you choose to make almost everybody.? 

[00:29:02] Participant_Walt: Yeah, um, so the reason I did that was, because I was trying to. In my mind. I was trying to go back in history, and I mean, I'm not sure how accurate this is, but the way, I mean, the way I learned history, the way I perceived it, was, like, when we first gained, when we first, like, declared independence from Britain, and like I said, I'm not exactly sure, because I haven't done deep research on this is based off purely of how the way I was taught history. There wasn't really much political diversity when we first declared independence. So, like, everyone was kind of, like, "Oh, yeah. I'm, we're, like, people are free!" So, you know, there wasn't really, like, a, there wasn't really like a plan, I guess, to move forward quite yet, and though the reason it started with the one or two people is because, I mean, we need a place to start. There was one influential leader on the left side. One influential leader on the right side. I forgot exactly who. Maybe it was like Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton? I forgot who the. So, I forgot who they put in history books as the first political leaders, I guess. But, yeah, I kind of just want to model about, I guess, how the history was shown.

[00:30:49] Interviewer: That was, that past was in the back of your head when you were thinking about the model?

[00:30:55] Participant_Walt: Yeah, yeah.

[00:30:57] Interviewer: Super cool.

[00:30:58] Participant_Walt: And the, I mean, the other thing was, like, if we did do another session, what I was thinking was, I would try to implement, I would try to, like, do something similar where, like, try to model, like, major events, like World War Two, which would have, which were, like, huge events that kind of, like, took away the divisiveness for, like, a short while, and, like, kind of kept everyone, led to everyone being on the same page for a little bit, so, kind of, like, changing them back to purple, but, yeah, it's just.

[00:31:35] Interviewer: Super cool. So, we have the people, when we run the model, these people are influencing the others, and they have their, their, they have their movements around and etc.

[00:31:49] Participant_Walt: Yeah. 

[00:31:49] Interviewer: I guess one assumes, and you did mention this a little bit, you said randomness. I could have implemented all the different ways of interaction, but I thought randomness will be the best, and, of course, this is a more abstract model. It's not represented in the real world. So, the question is, how do you think this model compares to what happens in real life?

[00:32:12] Participant_Walt: That's, that's honestly tough to say, because I haven't, I haven't really looked at historical data to be honest, so, like I said, I was trying to go for the result of it going back and forth, which is, like, super, super roughly what I assumed was happening throughout history, but I've never really checked out the historical data. So, I mean, if I were to make a decision whether the how accurately this could reflect, like, real life, I would have to look at this sort of data and compare how this model, yeah, just basically compare this model and historical data and see how, how they match up. So, yeah, I really don't think I can make a definite conclusion.

[00:33:18] Interviewer: Yeah, so, comparing the results is one thing, but how about the mechanisms inside your model? The way people interact with each other; the way people influence each other; do you think that is similar to what happens in real life? Or was it a sort of simplification you introduced?

[00:33:42] Participant_Walt: I mean, yeah, for the, I believe, since this was one of the first, umm, but this was, like, literally the second thing that was implemented after implementing the people. It was for the sake of simplification. I didn't put as much thought into the movement of people, because I'm sure if you, if I sat down to think about it, I could think of, like, a lot more specific, like, ways that people move around. But, I mean, that would have taken, that would have taken way too long to think about. So, yeah, it really was just for the purpose of simplification. As a, like, a whole, I guess, it was, like, a reference to how complicated the situation of movements of populations can actually be, like, on a, on a small scale. Of course, population movements from, like, country to country, is like conquering stuff that's more easily modeled, like, on the small scale, with just, like, a city, you know, that's. Everyone has a different goal in their mind on a given day that's. I couldn't think of a way to model it unless you actually, like, went person by person, yeah.

[00:35:04] Interviewer: And the way the model works, like, what did you think about the outcomes of the model? Like, the final, final results of the model? I will leave it running right now, so you can wait and see the outcome if you want to see before we close.

[00:35:19] Participant_Walt: So, here's the thing. I like, I like this, like, this part of the model where I really like how the influencers have affected the model, because they are what kind of keeps the distribution from going to. They, they keep it going back and forth, which is what I really liked about it. The only thing and, yeah, the only thing that, like, I guess, concerns me about the accuracy of the model, or. I think concern is too serious of a word, but I'll just say it just because I can't think of another word right now. The only thing I'm thinking about is the very beginning of the model, where, I mean, if you look at the beginning of the graph, blue just had, like, a huge exponential growth, like, huge exponent, like, whoever, basically, whoever takes over first just has a big spike and that's only. That's the main part of the model that, like, I guess, I guess makes me question the "how" accurate it is, at least at the beginning. As I mentioned, I do like the, I like do, I like, I like the distribution after the addition of influencers, after that first spike kind of goes along, yeah.

[00:37:00] Interviewer: And there are a few design decisions you made that were very interesting. For example, as we talked about, you initially made it 50% chance for the small people to avoid influencers, and then you took it out. What was the reason that you decided to take it out?

[00:37:16] Participant_Walt: I mean, umm, again, I believe this was due to the result, because when the 50% was implemented, they were, like. kind of hard stuck at that 50 50, 49 51, which I, I did like that, and also that solid what happens in real life. For the reason I tried to implement the 50 50 originally, because I was thinking, like, I was trying to put myself in the shoes of someone who watches TV, and I'm, like, I don't know. Maybe if you're, like, super bored, you decide to check out, you decide to check out someone on the opposite political party, you know? Maybe, like. yeah, maybe you're just bored. Maybe you're just, like, tired, and you're like, "Hey, I just, I just wanted to check it out," or maybe you heard some opinions from the opposite political party that you're, like, "Oh, that's, I mean, I do agree with that. Let me find out more about it." So that's originally the reason I implemented the 50 50 just sold that there wasn't a pure clinging to, like, the political party you're already in, but like I said, that led to the model being really hard centered at the 50 50. 

[00:38:36] Interviewer: Yeah. 

[00:38:36] Participant_Walt: I mean, could, we could have probably tried a distribution of, like, maybe, 75% chance to go away and see what happens. Hey, I just really like the overall distribution more, like, the variance and distribution after you remove the 50 50. 

[00:38:58] Interviewer: Okay. Perfect, and that's very interesting to hear, you know? Like that, like, when you are giving me the idea I never asked, as I said, and then, all these thoughts are going at the back of your head; that's really important.

[00:39:14] Participant_Walt: Yeah.

[00:39:17] Interviewer: The, another idea that you implemented initially was that, when the similar people came together, they will be grouping. They would be forming clusters, right? But you gave up on that. Why did you change your mind in detail?

[00:39:32] Participant_Walt: Umm, two, I believe, two reasons. The first reason is, once you did implement that grouping up feature, I believe they'll, they're led to, like, no change, no actual change in distribution, because you'll always permanently be grouped up, and, like, you'd never interact with the other, the other party. So, the numbers, I mean, from what I remember, the numbers wouldn't, would never change after the full group slowly formed. The other thing is, I realized it didn't really model real life as well, because like I said, the whole reason, I, for the main reason, I selected this political model was, because I took inspiration from that linking example that you showed me, so I just want to see what happens if we implemented that, took that from the example, and put it to this model. But I also realize it doesn't really mirror real life as well, because, I mean, people. Sure, people of the same political party will hang out short term, right? Maybe at, like, football games. Actually, not football games. Just, like, this really small, just really small stuff, I guess. 

[00:40:53] Interviewer: It might work, right? Maybe they are neighbors? That kind of stuff.

[00:40:57] Participant_Walt: I mean, your neighbor could easily be on the other political party and you wouldn't know, but, yeah, I was, like, you're not always going to travel around with that group. Like, when you're just, like, you're just a person on, on their day job, going from day to day, doing what you need to do, you're not concerned about what political party that that person is, that, what political party that person is. Like, you're not concerned about that. You're going to be, like, from your day to day life ,you're going to be interacting with, like, a mix, and you'll never know, and for the most part, you won't really care, right? So, that's why I thought keeping the random, random walk movement rather than the links would kind of model day to day life a bit more accurately.

[00:41:53] Interviewer: Perfect. That one was answered, too. So, are you satisfied with the output of your model?

[00:42:04] Participant_Walt: Um, I honestly, okay, um. I am, honestly, I'm not, like, fully satisfied, because like I said, given more time, I probably would have tried a few different ideas, but, I mean, for what we have now over the past, like, three days, I believe, I'm pretty satisfied with the way the distribution is handling itself.

[00:42:30] Interviewer: And you said you would have add some things, and you mentioned some of the things already. Are there any other, are there any other. What's the word?. Other things that you did not mention but you would add?

[00:42:46] Participant_Walt: So, earlier, I mentioned the whole, like, major event, like, kind of, like, resetting their own beliefs, values, for a little bit. The other thing is adding a, adding a third, a third party, right? Because you get in politics, I mean, it's not only Democrats and Republicans. There are, like, a few, like, libertarians, or stuff like that, that do, that are, that do pop up, are popping up, and I feel, like, it'll be really interesting to see what, how adding that small sample size could potentially change the model, that small, like, that small difference in the sample size. And then, other than that, other than that, the next step after I would probably be, like, fine tuning the movements, because, I mean, like I mentioned earlier, it is kinda, like, almost all random now, but, um, but an adjustment is, like, kind of, like, pre determining their movements a bit more, so, like, I mean.

[00:44:13] Interviewer: I mean, you did already count all of the things. You don't need to come out with.That's not, "Can you generate this," right? It's more, like, the immediate thoughts.

[00:44:20] Participant_Walt: Yeah.

[00:44:20] Interviewer: So, let's move on to the last part of the of the interview, because we are almost out of time. As I mentioned before, as much as you are comfortable disclosing, can you tell me a bit about your personal background? 

[00:44:32] Participant_Walt: My personal background? Umm, let's see. I mean, I'm just a freshman at University of boy all right now. I'm majoring in computer science and, I mean, I haven't really done too much yet besides that climate activity that I did, like, two years ago, as well as. Umm, I did robotics, actually, at my school for, like, three years, and so, so, that was really cool. And, yeah, I mean, to be honest, that's really. There, there isn't too much about me, like, in the past. I think what really defines me now is, like, myself moving into the future, because I have, just recently, I've, like, developed a whole ton of, like, aspirations, like, I'm not sure if this is what you need. Do you only need a personal background?

[00:45:38] Interviewer: No, that's pretty, pretty good. Yeah, yeah, that's pretty good, and then before closing, before closing, do you have any other thoughts or reflections?

[00:45:53] Participant_Walt: Umm, no, I think I. Honestly, I think I talked a little too much, and I think I literally went over, like, everything that was going on in my mind over those questions. 

[00:46:06] Interviewer: Perfect. Well, thank you very much. Let me stop recording.

